Build a clickable YouTube music grid with lightweight covers and inline player

Instructions:

Goal
Create a music page that lists the songs below as a clean grid of cards. Each card is clickable and starts the correct YouTube video in an inline player on the page. Each card shows a small cover image, title, artist, play time, and view count. The page loads fast. The design uses a simple modern grid and works on mobile and desktop.

Song catalog to resolve on YouTube

RS — I am Here — Ricardo Scales — 4:32 — 12,345,678 views

RS — Third Stream Dreams — Ricardo Scales — 5:18 — 8,123,456 views

RS — San Francisco Nights — Ricardo Scales — 4:45 — 6,789,012 views

RS — Redwood Room Memories — Ricardo Scales — 6:12 — 5,234,567 views

RS — Top of the Mark — Ricardo Scales — 5:22 — 4,567,890 views

Data build

Search YouTube for the exact track names with artist.

Choose the best official or most authoritative upload.

Produce a data file named music.json with an array of items:
{
"title": "...",
"artist": "Ricardo Scales",
"youtubeId": "...",
"duration": "...",
"views": 12345678,
"thumb": "..."
}

For thumb use the YouTube image service at img.youtube.com with hqdefault as the base. Save a local WebP copy for each item so the page uses local assets. File name format: <youtubeId>.webp.

Images and performance

Create a covers folder and store each WebP at 320 by 320 pixels. Target file size under 120 KB per image.

Add a srcset for 320 and 640 so high density screens look sharp.

Use lazy loading for images and for the player.

Preload only the minimal CSS and a small system font stack.

Page behavior

Show a grid of cards. Each card includes the small cover, title, artist, duration, and view count.

On click of any card, swap a placeholder area at the top of the grid with an embedded YouTube player for that track and start playback.

If a different card is clicked, replace the player source and continue playback.

Provide a Play icon overlay on hover.

Provide a visible Pause or Close control near the player to stop playback and collapse the player area.

Player

Use the YouTube iframe API with modestbranding and controls visible.

Autoplay on card click.

Mute on first play to allow autoplay in browsers, then unmute after the player starts.

Block page scroll jump while the player loads.

Layout and style

Use a responsive grid that shows two columns on small screens and four to five columns on large screens.

Use a calm dark theme with high contrast for text.

Card content stacks vertically with tight spacing. Round corners slightly and use soft shadow.

Keep CSS under 10 KB compressed. No external CSS libraries.

Accessibility

Every card has aria label with title and artist.

The Play control is keyboard focusable.

The embedded player region has role set and a label like Now Playing.

Build steps

Create scripts to search and resolve YouTube IDs and to write music.json. Prefer the YouTube Data API if a key is available. If no key, use a reliable search library or a simple fetch of the YouTube search page and parse the first good match.

Download and convert thumbnails to WebP at the target size.

Generate index.html, styles.css, and app.js.

Load music.json on page load, render the grid, and attach click handlers that mount the player.

Add a small toast or status line that confirms which track is now playing.

Quality gates

Lighthouse performance score at or above 90 on mobile.

Largest contentful paint under 2.5 seconds on a typical laptop.

Images served as WebP from the local covers folder.

No blocking script before initial content render.

Verify that every card starts the correct track.

Deliverables

index.html, styles.css, app.js, music.json, covers folder with WebP images.

A short README that explains how to update the catalog and regenerate thumbnails.

A preview link from the Replit dev server.

Hand off checklist

Confirm the five songs appear in the grid.

Confirm click to play behavior works for each track.

Confirm small covers load and look sharp on a phone and a laptop.

Confirm the player collapses cleanly when closed.

Provide the final repo link and a short video or GIF capture of the interaction.

Success standard
The page opens fast, every card plays the correct video, the covers are small and crisp, and the interface feels obvious.